ALGORITHM FOR COOKING EGUSI SOUP

1. Identify the items involved.

2. Identify the quantity you intend to cook.

3. Evaluate the items:

-  If you have the items jump to step 7.

-  If you have some then go to step 4.

-  If you have none then go to step  4.

4. How to get the items.

-  If need to go to the market, then go to step 5.

*  If going by yourself, go to step 5.

*  If sending someone, then go to step 5 but jump step 6 and 7.

-  Asking friends.

* If friends will give you all, then jump to step 7.

* If friends will give you some, then go to the next step.

5. Create a list according to your budget.

6. Go to the market.

7. Go back home.

8. Enter the kitchen.

9. If you have meat cut, season and steam else go to step 12.

10. If season, add salt, seasoning cubes then steam without adding water.

11. After sometime, add water and cook your meat.

12. Decide whether to fry or cook your Egusi.

13. If fry, then

-  Pour palm oil into the pot and allow to heat, then add your egusi and stir.

-  Keep stiring until the palm oil mixes well with the egusi.

-  Then add the meat sauce if available else add water and allow to boil for sometime.

-  Add your Ingredients like seasoning cubes, pepper (Sliced fresh pepper or granulated pepper), crayfish according to your discretion in a suitable quantity.

-  Allow to boil for sometime and then add salt in bits and taste to know when its sufficient.

-  Then taste for salt, then

*  If less then add more in bits until it's enough.

*  If enough, cover the pot to boil.

*  If too much, add a little more water to reduce the salt content. But if it doesn't work, you can slice Irish potato and put into the soup (If available) else you keep adding water to know if it 

    will reduce, if it doesn't, manage it that way and allow to cook.

-  Slice your vegetables and add to the soup and then allow to cook for sometime.

-- BONE APPETITE!!!

14. Else,

-  Pour your meat sauce or water in the quantity you desire to use into a pot and put on the cooker.

-  Then add palm oil to the sauce or water while it still boils and allow to cook.

-  Then pour the egusi into a bowl and add little water into it and mold.

-  Then add your ingredients like seasoning cubes, pepper (Sliced fresh pepper or granulated pepper) according to your discretion in a suitable quantity into the pot which is still on fire.

-  Then taste for salt, then

*  If less then add more in bits until it's enough.

*  If enough, cover the pot to boil.

*  If too much, add a little more water to reduce the salt content. But if it doesn't work, you can slice Irish potato and put into the soup (If available) else you keep adding water to know if it 

    will reduce, if it doesn't, manage it that way and allow to cook.

-  Then add the molded egusi in form of balls into the pot and allow to boil.

-  Then stir the soup and allow to cook.

-  Slice your vegetables into the soup and then allow to cook for sometime.


-- BONE APPETITE!!!

15. Enjoy your meal (Stop).



